APPLICATIONS OF AI

Health
In the field of health, AI has proven invaluable in medical diagnosis, drug discovery, and personalized healthcare. AI-enabled systems can analyze vast amounts of medical data, detect patterns, and assist in diagnosing diseases more accurately. Since AI can analyze large amounts of data faster, it was able to contribute to medical research and provide scientific studies relevant to the research. Some examples of invented artificial intelligence for medicine and health development are the following (Prajapati et al., 2022):
In 2009, the University of Manchester in the United Kingdom developed Eve, an artificially-intelligent robot. Eve has made a major contribution to drug discovery, especially on malaria and anti-cancer drugs.
The Institute of Cancer Research utilizes AI to scan their Species at Risk (SAR) database from patients to determine which are the targets for the cancer drugs.
AI Systems are also used in hospitals and healthcare facilities to research to determine which clinical studies the patients can be categorized.

Agriculture
Similarly, in agriculture, AI can optimize crop yields, predict weather patterns, and enhance pest control, thereby revolutionizing farming practices and ensuring food security. According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the global population is expected to reach 9.7 billion by the year 2050. As the population increases, the demand for food supply will increase putting agriculture, one of the most important sectors, in a tough spot. To develop a faster, more efficient, and a productive solution for this issue, Artificial Intelligence was introduced to agriculture. It helped in replacing the traditional methods we used with cost-friendly, harmless, and efficient methods.
New technologies that utilize AI are used to detect the status of the crops in the farm, analyzing if the quality of plants, what part needs to be treated, and if there is any infestation. The AI will utilize this data to respond and spray chemicals on those parts that needed attention.
Robots that are programmed with AI are used now to harvest crops and check the quality of the crop.
Weather is also important when it comes to agriculture, in which AI can analyze the weather conditions to help the farmers on deciding the approach they can do in that weather condition.

Business
AI can transform operations, enhance customer experiences, and enable intelligent decision-making in businesses. It can automate repetitive tasks, analyze consumer behaviour, and provide valuable insights for strategic planning.  It is essentially valuable for companies that require handling large amounts of data every day and a single error can cause a disastrous impact on the company. The following are the uses of AI in the business field:
AI for Cybersecurity, since most of the data are now stored in cloud storage it is important to secure these important data. AI helps the cybersecurity of the company to analyze the system of the company and identify if there are any vulnerabilities and help secure it.
Analysis on the data gathered from the customers will be helpful to identify the strategies that the company must utilize. Without data, they won’t be able to check the customer trends and will be a loss of profit. That’s why AI is utilized to analyze the vast amount of data in the database of the company.
As the Internet became the global gathering point, businesses took advantage of this and started to build their own platforms online. But with the emergence of AI, they were able to analyze the search trends in different platforms to implement a business model that will fit in those trends.

Education
Moreover, AI has found its way into education, facilitating personalized learning, intelligent tutoring, and adaptive assessments. AI-powered educational tools can adapt to individual learning styles and provide targeted support to students. It boosted the educational experience, especially in higher education. The following are the possible approaches to AI in the field of education:
AI systems can produce educational programs to the student’s needs by data analysis of their capabilities. 
AI systems can reduce the efforts and uncertainty of trial-and-error methods, this is helpful for students conducting their educational research and learning new topics. They will be provided with a comprehensive guide and resources by the AI.
Efficient admission can be implemented by using AI to gather and analyze data from student applicants.
AI systems will give students the flexibility to learn regardless of location, who teach them, and the manner of gaining basic skills.
